title: On The Absorbing Girls
author: Jaromir Lelek
type: essay
===

Some may call them attention junkies, others may dub them as those self-centred verbose hoes, but no one can get enough of them. Absorbing girls—an elite class of our tender-hearted gender that, my gorgeous reader, bears some of the most fascinating traits found among the various kinds of charismatic leaders.

What we are interested in is not the skin; we crave the lovely, veiled core that draws us in. She generates a force field. When talking to an absorbing lady one gets the feeling of being magnetised in the presence of a massive planet, or rather, under the spell of a supermassive black hole which is thought to be the nucleus of every galaxy—lady nuclei.

She props the conversation. As other kinds of charismatic leaders that bend the group according to their will, the main pull springs from soulfulness and confidence, and that of the healthy, vigorous kind. Many a bitch might seem absorbing but is in fact an arrogant twat. When deciding where to go next, the leader’s suggestion wins by default. She sets the tone. When you initiate a conversation with the people of the group—with the group joker, the leader’s sidekick or the annoyingly happy couple, to name a few stock personages—the dull, commonplace talks won’t contain a challenge. But when you get to the leader, you will be engaged.

Seldom does the category include introverts, though the absorbing one must from time to time flourish an observation or two recollected in tranquillity; overall, her conversation is suffused with wit, her social intelligence off the charts. She masks her insecurities by acting out their subject and thus grows. She makes for one hell of a show, an exciting presence you sense through the walls. You have an observant inclination to set a little wind to her sails to further the performance. Like Hermione in Lawrence’s Women in Love, upon electing an intimate companion she turns everybody else in the room into on-lookers.

Though, to haste to an obscure conclusion, she compels by something in the eyes. Discussing the sheer physicality of the absorbing element – which is, however, only auxiliary since the absorption taps its sway to the bowls of the spirit – shoulders and the immediate region around the lips contribute to the pull. The eyes crown. They are the all-seeing, conspiratory eye of Providence on the one dollar bill. Lingering on this however we’d segue into debating sensuousness.

Lamb wrote in one of his introductions to his sublime essays, that though he was arguably quicker than the people he met with, or at least more aware of his own ignorance, he felt them somehow exerting power over him; he felt belittled in their presence. A highly intelligent but exceedingly self-doubting individual meets a person obdurate in his ignorance—as the late Christopher Hitchens observed, ‘Beware of the person who knows he’s right,’ yet even this sturdy Demosthenes broke under Mrs Thatcher’s iron will in a face-to-face discussion they had over the Falklands. Hitchens knew her argument was flawed, yet it was pronounced with such conviction, he gave in. Thatcher transcended the playful absorbing quality into something absolute. Accordingly, he let himself be claimed: if Hitchens’ memoir is to be trusted, the then Prime Minister then proceeded to spank his bent buttocks with a roll of military documents and parted with the whisper, ‘naughty boy’.

What do I mean by natural hierarchy? It’s a tribal thing, still at work: Alpha’s fighting over absorbing girls (which is overtly incongruous with the previous paragraph but then again, wasn’t Mrs Thatcher rather the Mr and Hitchens rather the damsel in that situation?). Alpha equals control of the situation; an absorbing girl creates the situation one wishes to be in control of. Take Troy.

However, as it has been proven in recent studies, the traditionally held view that rich guys attract the most beautiful girls, that a certain exchange of recourses and looks occurs, is false. Rather, shallow people attract shallow people, affinity of interest is all. Serial killers will go on joint, romantic hunts with fellow serial killers and students of literature will fall dustily and bookishly for one another.

Unless alone and rather vulnerable, the absorbing girl asserts herself in and through the group which then poses as the wall to be climbed to get to her. Free solo climbing is a sport where you climb incredible slopes without any kind of a safe rope – one mistake and you die. Oddly enough, its greatest proponent, Alex Honnold, who claimed Yosemite’s Half Dome in less than an hour and a half, a godlike feat, is still as of now a virgin at the age of 29.

What the discussion brought is quite clear. If you climb, you should stop.