{
"title" : "Cave Cravings",
"author" : "Christina S. Sjøgaard",
"type" : "prose"
}
===
Bene vixit, qui bene latuit. You? Yes, I’m Lucy, you can’t burn me, because I’m already fire; you can’t freeze me, because I’m already ice.

My feet become a bit heavier in this cave, my feet constantly kicking, out of control, blood streaming from my feet, creating images and resulting in decay. Rotten meat, later eaten by the rats. 
In this cave.
My eating hole, snot hole, shitting hole, blood hole and pissing hole are all oozing puss, making the cave a stench sanctuary.
I have bitten my nails off and now I’m positioning them in a perfect file, sniffing; then I make a perfect circle, a perfect square followed.
I’m stumbling around with my cave cravings, I adore my own wreck of a body; I’m thinking of big ideas while I scratch my back against the rocks. I drew a dog out of my dead dog the other day, sometimes it winks at me, and I smile. I no longer remember how I ended up here, but I feel more relaxed and powerful in this cave than I ever felt before.
The stonewalls tell me echoing stories, and I listen, because only the hard pieces of silent stone seem to tell the truth.
I pace around with legs inflexible as crutches. My feet are bare bone, I’m giving a speech, while the audience can’t get enough of me.
I feel sick, skin sticky, covered in cold sweat.
I begin drawing on the stonewalls with shit and blood, a range of colours; mine and my dead dog’s juices make for one hell of a palette. I’m building my society up from scratch. I’m drawing images of weird creatures, and naming them. I tell them stories about my life, how I became a slave in a dead society, and how I now am free, here in this cave.
As of late, my throat has been growling weird noises, I wonder if something was born inside me.

I can’t move anymore, I’m just lying: my skin turned pale green, my flesh is rotting away. I vomited blood the other day, thick, almost black. I’m dying inside while my skin dyes itself with the septicity of gangrene. But I feel the creature inside me is becoming stronger, which is nice, because I wish the best for it. It has been filling me up with hatred, hatred towards the people, towards everyone. Everything but what inhabits this cave.
It has become increasingly hot in here. All I hear is my panting. All of a sudden, extreme pain shoots from my cunt, going on for hours; till I, scraping the last remnants of strength, raise my head and see a pair of horns protruding out of me. This calms me, so I fall asleep.