{
"title" : "The Fall - A Meta Fiction",
"author" : "Dan Booton",
"type" : "prose"
}
===
*A nameless narrator finds himself barely subsisting in a city where creativity is dead and the populace function for little reason besides to fulfill the needs of industry and commerce.  As he makes his way to Elysia Plaza, a dirty mecca for the city’s misfits, he finds himself the victim of a terrorist gas attack that not only nearly kills him, but allows him his first ever Dream.*  
*Whilst he sleeps, he encounters a beautiful woman who asks him uncomfortable questions that threaten to topple every assumption upon which he bases his life.*  
*Equal parts metaphysical speculation and noir futurist narrative, ‘The Fall – A Metafiction’ is well worth your time.*    
*“one of those rare stories that takes the reader to another place altogether.”*  
*– a hubpages commentor.*

\*\*\*

The Fall – A Metafiction.  
The last hour at work always hurts the worst, the seconds falling from the clock, all edging towards the failing light of freedom. Hell, whatever that means. I lifted another sheet of plastisteel, 1.5mil onto the press. The gloves they’d issued me were made for gardening. Now, I’ve never had the pleasure of a garden, read about them online sure, they sound nice. Problem is though, that the edge of plastisteel before it’s been refined and melted into its fit; it’ll tear through most things, tougher gloves than these in a slip. – Still got all yer digits? they kept asking. Daydreaming is a cardinal sin on the floor of the press shop. – It’ll kill ya in time, they say. What’s the use? Reality is this: eight ‘til eight pressing cold steel into auto-parts. Real primitive mecha-work, but they got to have something for us to keep our hands busy with. Otherwise what? We’d be out there, tearing it all down? That’ll be the day. But look at me: dreaming again. Not such a bad thing, if you can that is.

\*\*\*

“Come, come…”  
“You called?”  
“It’s my trees. They’re looking a little peaky wouldn’t you say?”  
“Of course they are. Haven’t we gone over this a hundred times? The city is drying up, hence the trees are dying. The conditioning is killing them: the lifeblood of this fucking world…”  
“Always yapping on about the lifeblood, they’re pesky is what they are, they’ve always been trouble. I’m just stabilising them is all. It isn’t doing them any harm.”  
“Look at the tree’s, that’s seven petals fallen today.”  
“I don’t need observations, I need suggestions.”  
“We plant the seeds. We give the city an inkling of its potential to dream, just the slightest taste, enough to register subconsciously. I’ll put my life on that precipitating in some improvement in your precious Sakuras.”
“You’ll handle it for me then. Won’t you . . .”  
“With pleasure.”  

\*\*\*

So the moment the clock strikes five to eight I’m out into the car-park and behind the wheel of the van. A flick of the ignition then a street-legal crawl down Princess, slipping through the traffic onto Darkgate, passing by the early evening rising of the street life on the way; some ready to sell, the others to pay. The movers and the shakers. I get through the front door and up three flights of unlit stairs. I’m throwing my company issue red-racer overalls to the bathroom floor and tapping in my shower-ration code: three minutes to rinse you free of twelve hours. The water feels good, what little there is and it eases some of the ache. I throw a towel around me and step into a room that approximates the sentiment of home: there’s not much here but what there is . . . it’s all mine. A couple tired old seats face the standard issue screen. Insta-food packs are stacked high beside a microwave on the unit. There’s a basic kitchenette with a sink scarred from repeated scrubbings, dishes washed and stacked beside it on the drainer. A single mattress with clean sheets, tucked tightly beneath a window which faces out across the road to others that look just the same. It’s just a room in an old style three story terrace that was condemned for demolition years ago. I like it, there’s nothing like good salvage. I flick on the screen, don’t ask me why. Conditioning or habit – you pick one. Ads for hotel breaks in the Olympia district, yeah right. Flicking over, an info short regarding health insurance:– You never know when you’ll break down. Be covered! Who can afford this stuff? I get frustrated and jam the red button of the remote. I throw it to the floor as I tell the set to fuck itself, hoping all the while there’s nobody listening on the other end.  
With nothing to do I throw on some black jeans and a black chord shirt, kick my feet into a tattered pair of black tennis shoes and make for the street. The evening is in full flow already: a couple of illicit vendors making no effort to appear inconspicuous parked up in a black coupé. They level their shades and eye a gang of hookers chatting away to kill the slow early hours; real scuzzy spider webs. The day-shift workers bustle to wherever they’re headed, visibly struggling to shake the work-fatigue. Those who can’t check the day’s baggage amble on beside them, glazed eyes avoiding all contact.
“You comin’ to see me later right?” comes a call from over the street, sweet like candy, like saccharine.  
“Sure thing Tess.” I flick her a smile, she always lets me stay a little longer than I should. I hit the Seven-Eleven and buy a couple of the latest energy drinks. Shake no more with Methizade, five percent Methadone… Just what I need to take the edge off. I scan them through, and I’m about to raise my wrist-chip to the scanner when I notice this pale pink-haired girl in a shimmering grey frock coat haring it past the window with a couple Undercovers on her tail. What was her crime? But it’s like a flip book of images drawn in rapidly disappearing ink; a distant memory by the time I’d reached the subway, now suddenly aware of the initial buzz from my first can. Nameless chems stimulate every sense, every synapse to a razor’s edge, yet the white glow of the counter balance holds it all in check. I take the escalator down into the subway and grip the handrail with a distrustful fear; blood shrinks from the knuckles. The commuters surrounding me seem comfortable as mannequins in shop windows. There’s no escape from this automated movement, down, down, down… into the cavernous mouth of city transit.  
I board the twenty-one-ten to Elysia Plaza just out on the outskirts of Olympia, an entertainment district that flirts with the interests of both the inner circles of business and the outlying industrial sectors. The place has earned itself quite the reputation; a dirty Mecca for the city’s misfits. There’s not one seat free so I grab a handle and hang tight. Faces are angled straight down along all the aisles, the scent of humanity crushed in a tin, wilfully oblivious of itself. By comparison to the crowded carriage, the other end of the line is a breath of fresh air. The station and plaza are integrated and designed to accommodate the flow of a vibrant hub of activity, everyone is hustling their way to where, to their graves? To nicer condos and cleaner air maybe. A cool breeze whistles through the crowds beneath the high curved glass of the roof, a transparent canopy over this otherwise thoroughly open-air venue. – Too long old friend, deals to good to miss tonight. You like? Everybody’s dancing to the rhythm of coins clattering in cash registers, to hands shaken hard and the cries of the traders; all the lip-service niceties of rapid fire business.  
It was then that I caught sight of the guy in the trench coat, breathing mask strapped tight around his face and an umbrella in hand shoving his way through the crowd. It hadn’t rained in weeks. I heard the scrape of the umbrella’s tip in preternatural detail, I could almost feel it puncturing something plastic. The man was running by now, pushing harder. And then the coughing goes up, deep retches catching dry in the back of everybody’s throats. I go down like the rest of them, paralysed, breath caught in a burning vacuum, molten unmoving tears in the corners of my eyes. Before I lose consciousness completely, I hear the wail of sirens and a solitary voice, a woman’s. She’s saying – I’m here to help…Then the ghosts of blackbirds leaving dying trails above me in the silent darkness. I’m out cold.

\*\*\*

“Hey handsome, you with me? Come on, show me some life!” It’s her voice again.  
“I’m asleep,” I say.  
“Now that’s kind of impossible. He’s delusional.”  
“You may be onto something there.”  
“You see for you to tell me – I’m asleep. That just won’t do. It’s like a somni-psychological black hole or something; an infinite loop,” she pauses to dab at the blood around my mouth with a sterile swab. “It’s just, plain bad manners to boot. You’re sleep talking, fine, – I’m asleep, you grumble between snores, you won’t remember in the morning. It’s not a conscious act so I’ll forgive you it. But now, while you’re asleep… that lump of grey tissue up there, it’s firing off electrical signals, like neural storms that are creating your own unique experience, sight, sound, touch, scent. Are you with me? So, in this state, in your dre-eam…” and she sings the word, elucidating the deeper strains of its nature for me. “You’re just as awake as you and me now. Well, guess I’m a little more lucid than you huh?” And she laughs! “But hey, you’ve just survived a gas attack. Soul survivor.”  
“Gas-attack? There’s not been one in years. And I try to get up.  
“You’re staying right where you are.” A firm yet gentle hand on my shoulder, holding me, holding me down. “Would someone get the miracle child a drink or something?” A glass of water comes my way, its chill feels like bliss. “Thanks,” she says to a shadowy figure that blinks in and out of sight, in and out of existence. “Now, listen up; back to your dream. For you to say whilst you’re dreaming, feeling, seeing, thinking, for you to say –Hey, I’m asleep. You’re lying to both of us right. Just the same as if you’re awake and you say it.”  
“I’ve never had a dream in my life; I never met anyone that did.”  
“Well, this could be the beginning of a beautiful thing. Tell me, what do you see in a single petal falling from this Sakura?”  
“What’s a Sakura?”  
“It’s a Japanese cherry tree, look you’ve got your back up against one,” I turn and feel the graze of the bark, I gaze up, crisp pink petals, one falls lazily into the palm of my hand.  
“It’s beautiful,” I say, feeling like the word hasn’t been recycled over and over since its inception. “It’s just what it is, a petal falling.” I’m wrong, and I long for her to correct me.  
“It’s the fall of every one of its kind, the changing of the season and the entirety of existence in itself,” she says, and I don’t yet understand. “Now, let’s get you home.”

\*\*\*

I awoke in my own bed with the sound of the alarm ripping through the fabric of whatever inhabited my skull. Seven ten in the morning, no shower ration, no pain killers and a feeling like my lungs were full of rust. Vivid recollections slid in and out of grasp, petals falling, and that voice. Who was she? Picking up my overalls I snuck a glance in the mirror that faced the door to the shower cubicle. My face in the dirty glass seemed alien to me, my eyes wider, accentuated. Had I come through a fever? How had I got home? I took some solace in the familiar silvering of the morning light, bad trip man. Work wouldn’t wait. I got ready and made my way down the stairs slipping on the penultimate step and grazing the back of my ankle. With a wince I stepped out onto the street. Totally empty, the lights about to cut out as the pale gasp of dawn broke the horizon. From a window above arose some shouting, the domestic kind, and then somebody turned the volume right up. Ambient morning beats, straying in and out of kilter, promising to centre me, succeeding only momentarily. In these mindless seconds I picture a silhouette of diaphanous white, pirouetting from the upper strata of a powder blue sky…  
Snap back to reality.  
“You look like shit man, look at you. You’re sweating,” said Faulks as I made my way onto the floor.  
“Van’s on the blink, had to walk,” automated.  
“You scanned in?” he wouldn’t stop staring at me.  
“Eleven minutes late,” picture the red digits.  
“Sucks. come on, let’s get this show on the road. Maybe they’ll let it slip this time.” Faulks and I had worked the same shift for nearly a full year now. He’s a good kind of guy and always has my back. We don’t talk much, but then what is there to talk about? There’s quite a generation gap: I got nothing, he’s got kids. We both smoke, that’s our one thing in common; every couple hours we get a five minute conversation regarding the weather or how expensive things are getting whilst we’re still on the same money. Besides the bitching, we’re model employees.  
“You hear about Elysia?” I asked him.  
“What’s to hear?”  
“A fucking gas-attack that’s what to hear. Damn nearly killed me. You didn’t catch the news this morning?”  
“Yeah. Same shit as every other day, nothing about any gas-attack. Just ads mostly, some talk about the economy. Are you okay? You look…”  
“There was nothing on the news about a gas-attack coming off the subway at Elysia? Faulks are you sure? You could have missed it,” I started coughing hard.  
“Well I’m sure as I can be. I always turn on the tube in the morning, this morning same as any other.”  
“And there was nothing?”  
“Fuck man, I could be wrong. Kids running round, getting ready for class, sure, I could’ve missed it.”  
“You could, and must have missed it,” I said catching my breath. I felt panic come over me, a cold sweat in my palms. Had I imagined the whole thing? Like it was just some bad reaction. It was real, it had to be. And her voice was still singing in my head, – I’m here to help.  
“You need to take the day off or something? The boss would only have to take one look at you and…”  
“No, it’s fine, I’m fine.” He had to be reassured, and so did I. There was nothing for it, if I wanted to live I had to work, so with my hands slipped inside the gardener’s gloves, I lifted the first sheet onto the press.

\*\*\*

“Got a moment?”  
“Ah, my trees; they’re resplendent, aren’t they. Not a single petal fell today! I hope you didn’t go to too much trouble. You didn’t cause a fuss out there did you?”  
“The serum was a success; only minor casualties incurred. I had them erased of course.”  
“They’re oblivious then?”  
“There were no leaks; it’ll all be forgotten before dawn. Their memory isn’t what it used to be after all.”  
“Any sign of Prometheus?”  
“I’m still searching.”  
“And he continues to elude you. He’s up to something. I can feel it.”  
“Naturally.”  

\*\*\*

I had to get an update; some sign that what I remembered wasn’t just in my head. I scanned out of work and walked through the grey rain to the nearest public-access terminal. It drew a blank; endless reams about trade, corporate mergers and splits, developments in any number of reality-shows. Frustrated, I walked a couple of blocks to an old corrugated shack that an older guy sells newspapers from. Print on paper, you just don’t see that around any more.
“You got today’s news?” I ask him. He hands me a leaflet. Front page; the economy is on the way back up, sub-story: they think something in the water might be causing cancer. I keep flicking through the pages, – Hotel breaks in Olympia: Surprisingly affordable.  
“You still got the early edition?” I ask him.  
“Course I do, nobodies interested in these old rags no more.”  
“So nobody buys your papers? How do you survive?”  
“On the whim of a few old romantics, that’s all kid. I get by.”  
“Can I see?” He hands me a paper, it’s the same stories as the evening edition, page for page.  
“This might seem like a crazy question,” I paused, unsure if I should go on. “You hear anything about a gas-attack in Elysia?”  
“I did,” came a voice from behind me. “You might want to start keeping that to yourself.”  
“And you are?” I turned to face him, a diminutive character with scrappy graphite hair, dark eyes and a voice of gravel. He was dressed in a bottle green overcoat of some antique fabric which rode over his scruffy clothes. The guy was the quintessential vagabond, a step above street life by virtue of an uncanny theatricality.  
“Just call me Raven,” he said, his deft hand flowing towards mine, grasping it in his. “Come, walk with me. We’ve much to discuss, and precious little time.” He nodded congenially to the old news-vendor who smiled back appreciatively. I followed him across the road and beneath the railway track, taking a cigarette from my pocket and rummaging for a lighter. “No need.” He smiled and snapped his fingers, a small blaze igniting from his thumb’s tip. I leant to and lit up.  
“Neat trick,” I said, exhaling, thinking it had to be an implant for sure.
“I stole that one,” he said, matter-of-factly.  
“Where are we going?”  
“You’ll see,” we walked without conversation through unfamiliar streets coming eventually to an alleyway barely wide enough to walk down without twisting your torso to fit. The strange peace that inhabited this little nook didn’t occur to me until later on. Near silence, an outright impossibility in this city. I lost myself in thought, picturing myself in a car with rain dancing lightly off the windscreen. I was overlooking a bay which led between the hills to a still sea under the night sky. Development was slowly claiming every unused plot, meaning and purpose being designated as more worthwhile than the land itself, holes being dug, concrete poured in.  
“It’s okay, the memories will come.” Raven flipped a catch at the bottom of a narrow garage door which sprung open with the rough sound of the rusted mechanism. “For now, I bid you welcome, to my little abode.” He clicked a switch and an electric light penetrated the darkness of the place, shelves and shelves along the walls lined with…  
“Are these books?” I asked, never having seen one before.  
“Yes, these form my little library, a safeguard against the ages if you will. We’ll come to these in time, though first I’d ask you to lend me your eyes for a moment,” he stepped over to a wall where a pair of thick black-out curtains hung down from ceiling to floor. “Come,”  
“Sure,” I said.  
“It’s striking is it not?” He tugged a cord, parting the curtains to reveal a massive canvas that left me speechless. I hadn’t the slightest inkling that such an image existed or even could exist; a violence of colours bleeding in and out of one another, elongated black silhouettes, shadows writhing, dancing over a rock face and in turn illuminated by the incandescent glow of a raging fire. The impression of the silhouettes dancing was of course the work of my own mind for the picture was a frozen moment. The impression of fire was merely an interpretation. No flame was evident in the frame itself; rather the ghosts of it were flecked. They glowed.  
“This isn’t a photograph,” I said dumbly, fumbling for antiquated words.
“No this was crafted, created by the hand of somebody just like you. It’s called an oil painting. No tech involved, beside a paint brush of course. That and a few pigments, varnishes, drying oils.”  
“I had no idea people could do such things,” I said, my jaw hanging seemingly detached from the rest of my skull, tongue slack in my mouth. I was chained to it.  
“There was a time the world rejoiced in such artefacts. There was work and pleasure and there were the arts, chances and changes but more importantly than all that, you, your kind were truly alive. It’s a sorry state you’re in now. No mistake.”  
“Where did you get all of these?” I walked softly, allowing my finger to trace across the spine of each book, relishing the textures and something hidden deeper within them.  
“Oh, once you’ve been around long enough you learn to prepare for the future; that’s the gift of foresight you see.”
“Right,” I said.  
“I think we have company…”  
“Gentlemen.” It was her.  
“Bright Eyes, how good of you to join us,” she stepped in from the alleyway, the pink haired girl in the frock-coat.  
“I saw you yesterday. You were…” but my words trailed off, I couldn’t remember.
“Nice to make your acquaintance,” her voice was familiar, with a hint of anger though. “Don’t worry about it, it’s not your fault. I could do with some coffee, you two?” I nodded my affirmation nervously.  
“Don’t mind her, she’s going through a tough time. Same as you, same as everybody. Now,” he said, pulling up a chair and gesturing toward another one for me to sit in. “The gas-attack in Elysia, you need answers.”  
“It doesn’t make any sense, it’s like it never happened.”  
“What does make sense? You see all the adverts, hotel-breaks in Olympia. Ever hear of anybody going there? You ever hear of anything happening here for that matter, anything real, tangible? Can you remember anything significant at all?”
I was lost for words yet I knew all the answers, I didn’t remember anything besides the day to day routines, the mundane. I wrestled with the realisation.
“What does it mean?” I asked him.  
“You’re not alone. We’re going to fix you up my friend, get you good as new. Then it’ll be down to you to make the difference.”  
“Me?”  
“Who else?”  
“But I’m nothing special, I’m just about the most un-special guy you could hope to meet.”  
“You can dream can’t you?”  
“Last night, after the gas-attack, before I woke up. I dreamt about a girl, well more of a woman, she was taking care of me, I thought it was real until…”
“You awoke, of course. But can you be sure you’re even awake now, maybe you could wake up again just like…”  
“In short what he’s saying is we’ve opened up a corridor of a few million doors and now it’s down to you to walk through them all. Suss them out,” she slipped a couple of tiny cups of coffee in front of us. “The gas you ingested killed everybody else in Elysia,” she bit her lip and continued. “We never expected the conditioning to have routed itself so thoroughly in your kind. As soon as the code came unstitched they couldn’t cope, their minds died, neuro-shell-shock.” The smell of the coffee was over-powering, I lifted the tiny cup to my lips and drank deeply. It didn’t surprise me I’d never tasted anything like it.  
“What do you mean you opened the doors? You were behind the attack?”  
“We played our part, though it wasn’t on our authority. We are just hoping to work the consequences to our advantage, and for that we need your help. You should thank us, you can dream. Soon your memory will return, and then, you’ll truly perceive.”  
“What will I perceive?”  
“That you’ve become a drone, a creature without mind, exactly as he wants you,” Raven interjected.  
“Who?”  
“Some things are better shown than told. Follow.” We stepped outside and climbed a rusted spiral staircase that took us to the roof; a dizzying ascent. I kept telling myself it wasn’t the height but the ground that would kill me. I breathed a sigh of relief as I pulled myself up onto the roof. Looking back down the staircase I saw no sign of Raven. When I turned back around, I jumped out of my skin.  
“No need for alarm,” he said, laughing with a mischievous grin.  
“How did you do that? You were behind me and then…” he merely looked at me curiously, perhaps disappointedly, no answer forthcoming.  
“Here, be careful it’s set perfectly.” He gestured toward an ornate brass telescope set upon the edge of the roof. “Take a look.”  
It took a little while adjusting, I’ve never been very good at closing just one eye. A man came into focus, sixties, seventies maybe even older, hard to tell at this unfathomable distance. He was reclining in a red leather armchair in a white suit, eyes closed, palms flat to a grand desk in an opulent room that looked out over the city. He was sitting in complete stillness, stasis even. If it weren’t for the intermittent plumes of smoke rising from the city below I could’ve sworn it was just a still frame tacked to the lens of the scope. I’d never seen anything so still in my life, could’ve been looking at him for seconds or days, I couldn’t tell.  
“That my friend is a ghost as true as ever there has been. I’ve known him since his mother saved him from his father. She put a rock in his stead. Can you believe that? He’s just like dead old Dad, doesn’t seem to pay much attention. I helped deliver his favoured child; Bright Eyes downstairs. Stole fire from him one day too, a little gift for you. Of course you abused it, nearly destroyed yourselves and your world,” he clicked his fingers once more with a wry grin. “But let’s let bygones be bygones. Look at him now; he wants no more of it. He’s become obsessed with balance. He believes if he can dumb you down; sever you from your dreams, from your passions, from your very humanity, then that’ll be his equilibrium. That’s all he wishes for now; Transcendence, into nothing.”  
Acceptance, it’s a strange thing. Sometimes the smallest things you won’t accept, but some of the biggest, they seem so pre-determined that you just go with them, you suspend disbelief shall we say. Besides, what did I have to lose? I wanted to believe him. The only sense I’d ever known was the order of things. People work in industry to create product, business dictated what was to be produced and where it was to go. Supply and demand; the insatiable to and fro. People knew their place on the map and that was it. I was tired of sense.  
“And you, what do you wish for?” I asked him.  
“Me? Only that your kind is given back what was taken from you, that your sovereignty is restored,” he sounded believable enough. “Come, it’s about time you read something of some worth.”  
And so I read. I read Kierkegaard and I learned of sin and desire, audacity and the root of evil; the impetus of boredom. I read Murakami and learned of our severance from ourselves. I read Shakespeare and learned of killing the enemy, cursing his family down through the ages, star crossed lovers and I laughed until I cried. I read Baudrillard and Jameson and learned of futility, of simulacra and I learned of the sacrifice of refusal. I began to understand spaces. Marlowe taught me how desire wields a treacherous double-edged blade, and with Faustus I felt a fear for something called a soul deep in my bones, and then with dried coffee in the corners of my mouth and a full ashtray before me, I slept. A voice in the lilting rain, besides ethereal chords, drifting into timeless shapes in the darkness.

\*\*\*

“You’re back, I knew you would be. I’ve bought a friend to meet you,” the coaxing of the woman’s voice.  
“Charmed I’m sure,” I say, approximating the motions of extending my hand in greeting. I need to fill in the blanks, where are we? Surely we’re more than just voices, black symbols floating in white space, a mute musical stave. First I force the sensations to form; the grasp of a hand and then definition taking shape. Two figures emerge as if from an impenetrable snowstorm.
“Meet Plato,” says the woman’s voice. I begin to recognise her, those piercing grey-blue eyes.  
“Ah, pleased to meet you. Your good lady here’s told me you’re having some quandaries you need clearing up. Oh no, hold up just a second. You must tell me whether you enjoyed the painting…”  
“The shadows dancing on the wall?” I ask, feeling like a shadow myself.
“Indeed, my cave, it resonates with you eh?” he laughs the laugh of a contented grandfather, fed full on life, familiar, fearless and from the belly up. “And well it may, you’ve been without the muses quite some time. When you don’t know your mind these images, they’re spellbinding, almost too good to let go of.”  
“You could say that,” I say. “I’m meant to bring change yet I don’t fully comprehend what’s wrong, let alone what I’m meant to do. I saw a man through a telescope. The man is a stone, a statue. Impassive, impermeable, motionless…”
“Old Zeus; how he longs for his retirement.” That belly laugh once more. “You’d perhaps be surprised to know that in an age aeons past he took human form and the name of Christ. He suffered such torment in those brief mortal years so that he and his kind may be forgotten forever. Didn’t quite work out that way though…”  
“How do you mean it didn’t work out?”  
“As your kind forgot them, about their old names, they became ghosts of themselves, immortals trapped in mortal forms, only the slightest dying remnant of their previous power at their disposal. Some managed to fade out of existence with the passing millennia, although not all.”  
“So, this is the truth?” I ask, anticipating a coy deceit, an element of symbolism.  
“Truth? You’re looking for that with a blind eye dear boy,” he chuckles and slaps an arm around me. The man is tremendously broad, reassuringly so. “Come, let me draw for you.”  
I ground myself by creating a room of white marble, devoid of decoration with a plinth-like table in the centre. Plato draws a circle on a sheet of paper with a smaller one at its centre then splits it into four quarters before inverting the pencil and rubbing out the lines which intersect the smaller circle.  
“This dear boy is your brain, the seat of your mind; it resembles the city you inhabit does it not?” he doesn’t wait for an answer. “It is split, as is the city into segments which fulfil their designated purposes. Oh they’re not as clear cut as I would have you see them in this pithy little diagram. Take these capillaries, these synapses, they form transport systems that deliver materials, products and messages, lines of communication to and from their required destinations. In your waking world you build the parts that are needed for this transit to take place. Your counterpart in the brain creates fluids, cells and sparks that fulfil similar functions. What you have in common is that you’re both aspects of the whole; the omnipresence.” He pauses to smile at me. “Though don’t go getting big-headed, there are others that will take your place; auxiliary power supplies.”  
“There are others in my mind?” I ask.  
“Not exactly, you are part of the interdependency and hence exist inside and outside of yourself; others are aspects of you as you are for them. But for the purposes of this conversation I meant only that if you stop showing up to work, for a while you divorce yourself from your mind, from these parts of the process. The whole will go on regardless. It may begin to deteriorate, and hence it will find a way to continue without you. That’s not a situation you want to find yourself in, that’s a whole world of chaos that you’re consigned to watch from a dark little room. One unbreakable window, no door.”  
“I see,” I say, though I know that I don’t.  
“Wine?” he hands me a glass, I accept graciously and it I hear the sounds of rustling cedars, vineyards bathed by the sun; a Mediterranean warmth. I double back on myself, I’m deciphering things with words, notions and memories I’ve never possessed.  
“Now your problem is right here,” Plato says pointing at the blank centre of his diagram. “The functional mind is separated into left and right, this is a philosophical viewpoint by the way, just the way I like to see it and I’m no neurologist. The left side is a world of mania, of creativity and art, its synapses and hubs of activity constantly buzzing with ideas that give life its joy. It sounds like a wonderful place does it not? Yet it depends on its opposite for survival. The right side of your mind; that is a place of calculation and deduction, of logic. Its denizens are cold and suspicious of everybody, themselves included but especially the manics of the left. Herein is the contradiction, a war of worlds whose continuation is absolutely integral to your fulfilled existence.”  
“I think if I had the choice I’d rather just have the left side.”  
“And well you may. Though let me present you with a little vignette that may curb your enthusiasm. I’d like you to picture an artist, for years she is involved not only in the act of the pursuing her art but also the practical act of living, earning a wage, following instructions, building cabinets, maintaining her existence. Hence she gives the right side of her mind its proper nutrition. One day though, she makes it big, she’s drowned in money; she hires help to fulfil the obligations of the practical side of her mind, a maid, an agent, an accountant. She becomes lost in her creativity, she loses touch and balance. By this point her days are numbered. She has become fat, idle; she feels her decline yet has lost the practicality to reverse it. Worse than that, she has lost the logical scepticism with which she may accept her fault.”  
“This city isn’t like that at all, there’s no creativity, nobody’s suspicious of one another, what’s to be suspicious about?”  
“We’re back to your little problem; the malfunctioning deity that has installed himself in the Olympia nexus, a synonym for the crux of your consciousness. Zeus has systematically deprived you of your duality. The city is nothing but industrial exchange, thankless tasks that fulfil no real purpose except to replicate and maintain. You are handled in a fool-proof environment and of course slowly but surely, it’s killing you.”  
“And Raven will help me do away with him, to stop this?”  
“Ah the Raven. He has a score of his own to settle, their feud has always been your kind. Zeus would not accept you, yet Raven your creator, who went by the name of Prometheus in those days, considered his judgement of you to be wiser, so much so that he stole from Zeus the gift of fire. An act for which Zeus inflicted a terrible vengeance.”  
“What did he do?”  
“He chained your benefactor to a rock, where every day a giant eagle would come and tear from him his liver, which of course given Prometheus’ immortality regenerated daily. Ready for fresh pickings. The scribes said that after a youth by the name of Hercules freed him they were reconciled; though that sounds a tad far-fetched wouldn’t you say? After he was freed Prometheus fled from Zeus, fearing that his wrath would once again flare up and be visited upon him. Zeus, bereft of his ancient nemesis, his touchstone began to claw back every ambiguous gift he and his kind gave you, and more besides.”
“And we need our suffering?”  
“As you need your dreams; everything is a dichotomy to the human mind, everything measured by its other. Without love you have no hate, without Prometheus, Zeus can no longer bare the monotony of his immortality. Now, our time is coming to an end. I bid you farewell traveller, until we meet again.”

\*\*\*

I awoke startled but lucid, dimly aware of what had passed in my sleep. I had to hold on tight though as the mist began to evaporate from the moors of my mind, fragments of beauty and meaning dissipating with it. That tiny coffee that I now knew as a macchiato sat in front of me, perched above either/or by Kierkegaard, a truly beautiful old tome. I was still in the chair I’d been reading in. The tiny cup was warm, a small head of foam spinning slowly on the dark surface of the espresso.  
“Morning handsome,” she was in coax mode, gone was the coldness of yesterday.
“Good morning to you too, you know you look better in the Chiton.”  
“Thanks, though they’re a little conspicuous these days,” she pulled a thick chequered housecoat around her and sat beside me.  
“I’ve a question.”  
“Shoot.”  
“Why side against your father?”  
“You know that one about every woman adoring a fascist.”  
“Ah, Plath,” I smiled a grey morning smile.  
“Very good. Truth is though that even a daughter can’t accept it forever, especially when she’s eternally spoken to like an employee. That, and I can’t stand the indifference any more.”  
“That’s understandable.” We sat for a while sipping coffee. I wasn’t sure what to say, what does one say to a Goddess?  
“Are you ready?” she asked eventually.  
“For what?”  
“You’ll know when the time comes; it’s for you to know.” I’d have been frustrated but I was getting accustomed to the way of these things.  
“Ah, our protagonist awakens,” Raven’s rough hand clamped around my shoulder. “Did you sleep well?”  
“I couldn’t say, can’t tell the difference any more.”  
“Well, finish your coffee and get yourself dressed. Then we take a walk.”  
“Where are we going?”  
“Where else; Olympia and the tip of the spire.”  
 – Beat…  
We walk straight through the gates, she just flashes those eyes at the guards and immediately they’re docile as lap dogs; waving us through without a hitch. We’ve entered the perfection of an enormous circular Zen Garden. Miniature forests of White Sakuras skirt the impenetrable walls bathed in the deep pinks and sapphire blues of the sun-streaked evening light. The petals fall twisting in the breeze; the delicately raked gravel enveloped in a transcendent snowfall. There’s nobody to be seen.  
– Beat…  
In the centre facing us is the Spire. It is our destination. We slip through the door at the bottom and ascend the spiral staircase inside. It winds up through hundreds maybe thousands of rotations; I lose count, lost in the motion. As we step inside his penthouse, he stands, opens his eyes, and there for a second the light between us correlates. He notes my companions and bows with a dying grace.  
– Beat…  
“Could someone call over a doctor, I think Mr. Smith is… Mr. Smith can you hear me?”  
I see him and I run, I throw myself at him with all of me. Knocking him from his feet I keep pushing forwards, holding him tight with fatal inertia. We are hurtling and he is weightless as I propel us to whatever horizon, we’re tearing shreds from the membrane of this reality. Still forward, I’m screaming though I can’t hear a thing. The vast pane of glass gives way and we become one with the shattering. We’re falling, snatched from the sky above us: the perpetual blue of the Mediterranean ocean. And rushing to greet us, the tranquillity of gravel, hauling us forth to an end.  
– Beat…  
“Mr Smith… I think he’s …”
