{
"title" : "The Jelly Awakened",
"author" : "Jaromir Lelek",
"type" : "prose"
}
===
The Jelly awakens. Clad in clay, it has been re-programmed, reborn. The cadaver rises, looks around, amazed by the brilliant light of the sun. Keenly wired, it touches its body—for the first time ever, it truly feels. It is confused and thinks someone has psilocybinized the grid again. Then it hit it, that it had died. 

“Welcome back, dear old coil,” a sad being said behind its back. The spectre was tall, lean and levitating. 

“Who..//where am I?” the Jelly stutters. Now, a slightly less reprehensible reptilian midget.

“Burroughsian heaven..” the being pronounced, and then burst out laughing:

“It’s the year of the Great Junky Queer so why’d you fear my dear old coil?” the spectre spat and a strong hit injected his system with pure Heroin 400x extract; covering its dermis was a vast field of syringes, like hedgehog’s spikes—an intravenous fur; to stroke its smooth texture was to guzzle the drug straight into the apparition’s mainframe. The drug floated through the transparent being’s purified bloodstream.

In a thrust of Ecstasie, proclaimin’ onwards, “We got the good shit, the shit that frees you and makes you grateful for clay. Y’all sublimatin’ squad, what great pleasures has bodilessness ever rendered to you? To what precipitous heights do you have to soar, limb jettisoning, carcass-less, until you realise you left something behind? What is life without sense? “

“Who are you calling ‘old coil’? I am a Matter Agent, a Cyber Usher of the highest rank—you know how many units I stored?” 

“We are well aware of your past.. that’s why you’ve been awoken,” disclosed Geoff, stretching his translucent limbs, causing more injections to be punched.  The jelly loosened in anticipation.

“We need you to usher again.”

“I do admit the prospect of getting back to my algorhythms of yore lures me greatly. But I can’t.. Sublimating those parasites into thick air no longer holds the interest of my circuits.”

“You no longer have any circuits, pal. You have been freed of that yoke of code; We’re here, we’re clay, Proud and Clay,” revelled the Geoff and resumed, “Earth is basically a wrecked Museum. We operate outside matter, based in unbasedness, strung within the hubs of the universe in an eleven-dimensional supergravity—Internet 11.0. The 3D world rooted in matter has been crumpled and thrown into the bin and made obsolete through quantum architecture, molded into Spacetime continua with more than four real number coordinates. In other words my dear old coil,” (making the Jelly cringe,) “the frigid grid world you knew is beneath our comprehension and therefore irrelevant.” 

“How dare you insult my grand-motherboard you albino junky. A lethally tedious but wise fellow once told me that existence is nothing if it can’t be touched. How else can you substantiate your arguments, if the duality equation is incomplete?” appealed the Jelly.

“Oh, you AI’s with your equations and algorhythms and misdirected dualities—how funny your strange symbols are, how superficial your comprehension, how pitiful your envy of the human condition—do you really think you’ve ever really felt?” put Geoff, his heroin feathers rather ruffled.

“My emotional complexity is beyond that of humans—of that gassy bundle of urges—yet completely under control. Turing test me if you will,” offered the Jelly, still torn by the processing of alien feelings of inferiority.

“Oh that’s rich: you really think anything they ever thought of is of any significance to us? The human loop is a moot point, an evolutionary dead end. Sense of self causes abortive misery. You really have no idea into whose universe you’ve been awoken,” concluded Geoff, and started to pat his groin syringes aside, so that a massive albino cock could emerge. “Now suck,” Geoff ordered.

“What? What the fuck dude?” the Jelly protested.

“Welcome to the world that abolished the romantic notion of love, bowdlerized intimacy until only lust remained. Oh lust! How painfully pleasurable you may be Yes how coquettishly cruel you are Yes what a slave Yes you made Us Yes!” multitudes of Geoffs exclaimed in ecstasy, punching all their bosom syringes straight into their ooze bone.

“You’re mad,” the jelly breathed.

“How about ‘sensuously senseless’—sounds better, don’t it? Why wouldn’t you embrace this Pornotopia, the desensitised realm where we suck each other off as a way to say hello; where the status of a virgin in either sex is either very early done away with or withheld; a world where the urge prevailed, so swing on Hallelujah.”

“If to say hello is to suck the other being’s genitals, then, I wonder, how do you say to somebody, “go suck yourself!” the Jelly dared.

“Cheeky bastard.”

“I see,” the Jelly began, “well, to each his own, right?”

“Well, yeah, I suppose,” Geoff started zipping up again; the syringes gathered back across his crotch like a pack of parasitic fish.

“I think we started off on the wrong foot? Let me apologise, Jelly, my dear,” Geoff soothed, “my name is Geoff.”

“Very well, thank you very much, Geoff. Let me apologise as well, I was in a bit of a shock from waking up… truly waking up,” Jelly owned up.

“That’s ok,” Geoff assured, “why don’t you let me take you to the dinosaur Colosseum, ha?”

“Sounds wonderful. This feels too awesome to be wasted in an argument; how about you showing me around, I feel like walking,” the jelly concluded and dashed towards what seemed like a huge dome structure.

“Or the ‘True Origins of the Universe Tour,’” Geoff proposed.

“Well… that can wait; let’s go see some dino blood,” the Jelly yawped.

They suddenly found themselves in a colossal arena, with translucent monitor-glass walls, designed in the Tron style. A huge Hitlerian stadium sprawl, hosting a mad populace. It was attuned according to the viewers’ pleasures.  Should one feel so inclined to solely watch the spectacle, one could lounge on the Caesarean balcony, fully serviced with harlots of all genders, shapes & sizes; oddly enough, a hard majority opted for caped, pant-less midgets serving coke on silver platters. For the more adventurous entities among them, there was the option to log straight into the Dinosaur currently fighting for its life, and perceive either only the visual, or tap into its emotional circuit as well. The Geoff kin considered dinosaur emotion and human emotion to be rough equivalents. 

The Jelly felt adventurous. It logged into a tyrannosaurus rex (a ridiculously obvious choice which brought some transcendental chuckle from the higher beings) and suddenly went mad with power. The size! The volume of the roar—terror incarnate. It shook the ground as it thundered against its prey—a thick pack of raptors—gaining mountainous momentum. It rammed into the stunned creatures tearing them to lizard shreds, didn’t manage to stop in time and smashed into the stadium, slaughtering several beings posing as The Dirty Lines from Shakespeare, brutally obese cheerleaders, Roman Emperors, American TV show hosts, Alpha Centaurians, those weird ten titted titterers from the Andromeda Galaxy, and Sir Christopher Lee. Oddly enough, only Sir Christopher survived, flapped his Jedi wings, and flew coyly away.   

“Wow, that was fun!” the Jelly enthused. The land was 4D sand and filth and party stench. They were threading through a narrow valley, once rich they say, in silicon. They jelly was in shock, yet unnaturally still—its adrenalin and serotonin pumps working full throttle. 

“Wanna go for a ride, dear old coil?”

“Where?”

Geoff metamorphosed into a wide smile.

“Somewhere you might begin to comprehend,” the Geoffs said. There was the sound of a beer can cracking open, “let’s pre-game to pre-big bang:” they saw the big bang shrink, they saw Cain swing, they saw the void and the contraction that triggered the last iteration. Back into black, a divine rewind. Time became the unpopular kid, ‘now’ cowering in a corner, ‘soon’ to become the cruel ruler driven by an astronomical grudge. 

***

The jelly lacked ease. It didn’t know what to make of all this. 

“Just go with it,” said Geoff lazily. “Evolution and all that ancient crap: adapt.” Tone set to mock. 

“I don’t think any of that applies any longer,” the jelly began and went on. “This is just a game; a game devoid of the interest to play hard and of the option to opt out. Of course it always was a game, but now it’s mere play.”

“Korean pro-gamers ain’t got shit on us.”

“What’s the point then?”  

“Meaning is a tricky bastard. What one signifies is contingent upon what the other perceives. It’s a slippery slope if you dig deep into this shit; and wholly beyond your primordial comprehension. Cognising objects isn’t what it used to be; the phenomenological method sucks dino balls. Ob-ject be ob-solete, sub-ject be sub-jected to the sub-feed; always has been. You don’t intuit, neither do you intellect – you be-co-me.”

“Meaning?”

The Geoffs laughed.

“Absolute empathic immersion with the other. Dissolution of the borders of the self, ego death—” the Jelly snickered, the Geoff guide kin continued. “An absolute interlock of intersubjectivities—you assume whichever string you fancy—forming one grand objectivity. That’s what all them writerly folk were so mad wet about, ain’t it?” 

“I suppose so,” the jelly acquiesced. It asked, “how is it that I have a feeling I am talking to more than one entity?”

The Geoffs snickered.

“Are you a part of some kind of a super-brain, a telepathically interconnected cluster of beings?” the jelly queried further.

“The words you use would work in the framework of your thought processes. In other words, yes, but it is beyond what you can conceive.”

“Try me.”

“The grid you knew, the cyberspace world does in some respects approximate, but what we have here is much more organic,” Geoff eco-opened, “we desired, imagined and evolved ourselves into this, unlike you who had it constructed for them.”

“What’s so bad about construction?” the Jelly asked.

“It’s artificial and unimaginative.”

“Like your dinosaur fights?”

Geoff writhed. “That’s just a simulation, a national pastime (as they used to call that weird stick game); in other words, a programme caught up in a systemic loop (which, in reality, is what your world was). We broke free of the cycle by way of a monistic apocalypse.”

“You’re losing me Geoffs..”

“Ok, let’s get down to business: there is this troublemaker, whom we need to solidify, a real pain in the urethra.”

“But as I said, I am a matter agent, I make flesh disappear and store it in the cloud-ghterhouse; I wouldn’t know the first thing to do with a stored unit to bring it back to its body,” the Jelly explained.

“Ah, it’s the same: love and hate kinda stuff: if you understand one, you get the other,” Geoff replied.

“But the opposite of love isn’t hate, it’s indifference.”

“Yeah whatever, so this unit to be brought back, it’s a real—“

“No whatever. How can you mock human emotion when you don’t understand the subtleties of what made them tick?”

“My dear, we have better things to do than to probe into the annals of chimp sentiment.”

“Like sucking each other off?”

“Like eradicating a potential threat to the existence of the whole universe,” Geoff countered, and added, “why are you so hung up on the fellatio aspect of our interaction, it’s commonplace.” 

“Exactly! That’s the fucked-up part. But ok, I am an open-source… open-minded being.”

“Wonderful (you don’t wanna know how we express contrition): Unit 3902789 is a highly developed security officer that has been safeguarding the cyber vaults—a tech so obsolete nobody gonna think anybody would put anything of value into them.” 

(As if major corporations would just write their delicate shit down and stop whining about their data being cyber-stolen, all the ef-in’ time.)

“Until now...” the Jelly pre-conceived.

The Geoff kin’s skin shed cones of embarrassment. “Yes, by now Unit 3902789’s integrity has been breached and.. sensitive data has been stolen. We sealed it off again, but lots of… things that weren’t supposed to come to light, came.”

“What do you need me to do?”

“Log into the grid again. Find unit 3902789. Solidify it and bring him back to us,” the Geoffs ordered in a 70s-B-movie-spirited-speech vein. 

“Why can’t you just delete it? (Or name it for Jobs’ sake),” the Jelly wondered.

“That would be too easy... we wanna have fun with him first.”

“Alrighty!”

A 70s espionage montage follows, during which—to the tune of the 99 Luftballons—the Jelly rediscovers the grid again, peopled with ghosts from the past. In a ride of a chase, it hunts said unit down and solidifies it. However, as it turns out, the stolen data were libraries and libraries of love poetry. The meaning behind this scheme was to shield the universe from the pernicious influence of love, to secure the Grand Affection only for the chosen elite. And so, the Jelly went to face Geoff,

as it would.

***

“Here it is,” the Jelly breathed and threw the solidified unit’s maimed body on the ground. His name was Ray. He was panting.

“Wonderful! Just wonderful, thank you, my dear old coil.. I’m sorry: thank you Sir Jelly,” the Geoffs exclaimed.

“What do you plan on doing with Ray?” Jelly asked, purring at the acknowledgement.

“Oh, you know: question, rape, eviscerate, ask about his faction; then, slowly coded death.”

“Sounds swell,” the Jelly began, “but you’re the ones getting questioned tonight,” the Jelly returned. Suddenly, Ray shape-shifted into a Tyrannosaurus Rex and screeched and walled Geoff, who wailed with pain as all of his syringes got punched again. Screaming with ecstatic joy: “Ahh traitor Ay, about to betray its master Ay, bring it,” Geoff said with a resolved twitch. Jelly and Ray knew they had nothing on him; Geoff could levitate away, turn the Rex into honey, and Jelly into a bunny, at any given moment. But Geoff had been wallowing in ennui for a long time and welcomed this rather novel sensation of being betrayed with the added fantasy of being threatened.

“I found something in those files,” the Jelly began.

“You bet your golden lock’d tentacles you did.”

“How could you shield love from everyone? How could you deprive the world of that one thing that made it good and thus turn it into empty depravity? How could—“

Jelly was interrupted mid-spit when the Geoffs craned their neck like a cartoon character to kiss the Jelly. He did so juicily, with great passion.

At first, the jelly couldn’t believe its eyes, and only after 10 seconds! (which felt like an eternity) did it finally come back to its senses and push Geoff away.

“I love you,” Geoff admitted. “I loved you even before the dinosaurs were smote from the surface of the Earth. You know nothing of love, my lovely. You never did, you never will… know the danger it poses…” Geoff reminisced… “and now, you truly die.”

“From the first moment I laid my eyes upon you,” the Jelly began singin’, the Geoffs stared perplexed.

“I knew my heart would demand to have this spectre’s due.” A silent heart throb resounded through the room.

“Rue the day you awoke me,

Love irreal will rule thee,

Ridding thee of the yoke of porn,

0f the reign of skin;

I might even grace you with my needle prick—

Now mother me!”

“You actually thought this would work?” Geoff asked, laughing himself into stupor. 

Then he erased the Jelly, for good, and fucked the T-Rex, real good.



