{
"title" : "Ring Round the Moon (December 2015)",
"author" : "Thor Garcia",
"type" : "essay"
}
===
The blood from the latest “war to end all wars” still drying when Jean Anouilh unveiled *L’Invitation au Chateau* in 1947. Some will recall that the French nation lost quite a portion in that particular global slaughter – namely, hopes and dreams, wealth, respect and dignity . . . along with some 600,000 civilians and soldiers. With the future still unclear, Anouilh’s antidote to the grief and fear came in the form of a seemingly idealized look backward, to a time before both world wars of the last century . . . a time when people pretended they were innocent and didn’t know a thing . . . a time, strangely like today, when the rich remained rich and the poor remained poor, and the future seemed just out of reach and people, as always, were looking for a little human connection.

*L’Invitation au Chateau* is set in 1912, at the end of what’s known now as La Belle Époque – a time of golden renewal after the ruinations of the Franco-Prussian War. Historians inform that the rise of the Third Republic was invigorated by the spirits of optimism, prosperity and the magic of technological and artistic innovation. It was the era of the Lumière brothers, Pasteur and Marie Skłodowska-Curie; of Gauguin, Matisse, a young Picasso and Art Nouveau; of de Maupassant, Zola, Rimbaud and Apollinaire; of Stravinsky, Debussy and Sergei Diaghilev’s Ballets Russes. In the United States, a parallel renaissance of sorts was under way in the wake of the Civil War, with the booming industrialization, immigration and expansion of the Gilded Age. Many other parts of the world were undergoing similar regenerations, in a synergy that seemed almost scripted to turn tragic.

Fresh horrors, of course, lay just over the horizon – but no one could confirm the nagging suspicions. The overwhelming urge, therefore, was to dance and play and ignore the gathering unease. The First World War would begin two years after Anouilh’s characters in *L’Invitation au Chateau* met near Vichy, in the Auvergne region, for a splendid ball at the chateau of the wheelchair-bound aristocratic shrew, Madame Desmermortes.

The December 2015 revival of *L’Invitation au Chateau* by Charles University’s D-Theatre troupe was a clever decision indeed. With hostile NATO and Russian forces deployed in the Middle East, east-west tensions simmering over Ukraine, and the United States and China engaged in what seems like perpetual brinkmanship, many observers have noted the seeming parallels between the current time and the pre-World War I configuration of major powers. Like the La Belle Époque and the Gilded Age, our era is marked by fabulous wealth for a few, and small or declining prospects for the rest. 

They had the hard science that killed disease; we’ve got the digital explosion that kills concentration. They had great painters exploding in color and form; we’ve got great television in high-definition. They had inventive composers who challenged the prevailing notions of tonal construction; we’ve got inventive compilers who totally challenge the notions of curatorship. They had barbed wire, tanks and chemical bombs; we’ve got drones, cluster munitions and nuclear machine-guns. D-Theatre’s production was of the 1950 English adaption of *L’Invitation au Chateau* by Briton Christopher Fry. Fry’s reworking, which is now almost as famous as its originator, is called Ring Round the Moon, a title which has its own connotations. A ring around the moon is known as a lunar halo, a phenomenon that occurs when moonlight is bent through ice particles traversing Earth’s atmosphere. Some traditions say a moon ring means bad weather, or other foul conditions, are imminent. And perhaps they are. 

One wouldn’t necessarily get that impression, however, from the D-Theatre’s interpretation of this work, as the production presented the text as straightforwardly, frothily and ingenuously as one could hope. Director Eva Bilská put her faith in a mostly young, disciplined, energetic cast – and it turned out they were more than capable of construing a finely-calibrated farce. The crew’s performances at Prague 2’s D-21 stage were deliriously delightful and satirically insightful – and the standing-room-only crowds were left with a laugh-fest bursting with sweet sardonicism and sincere irony. 

That said, the viewer is nearly immediately lost in the plot of this impossible yarn and never quite reaches an exit. So-and-so is suddenly saying so-and-so about somebody so-and-so, and so on – but it hardly matters. The story seems to have something to do with upper-class twins who can do whatever they want – but they’re different, see, one is cold-hearted and one’s a mush, that’s the rub. . . . and well, here’s an old lady in a wheelchair who’s trying to orchestrate everything for her own illusory gains – well, hell, everybody in this thing is trying to orchestrate something for their own illusory gains. . . . And one or the other of the twins is trying to seduce one or all of the girls, and the girls are rich or proletariat, defensive or ambitious. . . . Sigh, one does begin to lose track. . . . And everyone’s constantly marching on to the stage, rattling off some quick witty banter, or having a combustive exchange or a lonely speech, before quickly marching off the stage. . . . and there’s a hint of cheating and old men complaining they can only eat noodles and salt, and difficult dilemmas leading to difficult expositions. . . and, right, there’s the idea – everyone’s in love with somebody else, and no one knows what they want! Will love or money prevail? Does love stand a chance? The questions and answers hypnotize and tantalize. Everyone’s paralyzed. 

Jaromír Lelek, looking remarkably like a young Orson Welles (but in ginger), turned in a positively winsome and magnetic performance in the dual roles of twins Frederic and Hugo. The challenge was surely daunting but Lelek’s dynamism was decisive and did not disappoint, forming as it did the necessary pole around which the rest of the cast gyrated. Director Bilská was an absolute delight sitting in as dame Desmermortes. Tamara Mergeščíková, meanwhile, was quite the spicy dish as Diana Messerschmann, the sassy temptress who’s engaged to Frederic but is secretly in love with Hugo. . . . 
Precisely – Ring Round the Moon was a joyful throwback so full of corn you could feed half of Somalia. So take that! cynicism and soul-crushing torpidity. Life will go on, humans shall gallivant about, ignorant and conflicted and in total denial . . . until the day the whole charnel house goes kaboom and nobody can do a thing anymore. What was it you were trying to say, anyway?