{
"title" : "The Self is a Hell You Cannot Follow",
"author" : "Shaun Kennedy",
"type" : "prose"
}
===

1.
  “Frank, darling,” says Shelia “I’m going to break every bone in your body. I am going to pummel your face into the pillow and I am going to devour you fresh on the bed. I will eat up your nose and your liver and your thinning hair and the skin around your fingernails. And,” here she adds to the caress of his head with a grip on his balls, “I will devour these.”
  Frank doesn’t say a thing. His mouth widens a little more. He almost moans. As she headbutts him he yells. Then she is on top of him, backhanding and thrashing. Finally her bared teeth engulf him. Pleasure throbs through him like an earthquake.
  In ten seconds he is back in the advert world, filtering through the dopmaine-cone 30-second forever midnight.

2.
  Janice Black and 21 others like your profile picture.

3.
  Frank will never shut up. Unconscious, gone, whatever you think of him, he still likes The Kooks and The Clash, likes Lynx and McDonalds and likes that Jack Ford is “back in the big city and ready for round 4 #helpme.”
If you tell me that Frank is not doing these things, if you tell me that he’s lying spread-eagled and dumb on his covers, that it’s his lifestylist at RecognitionTM doing these things, hired by Frank on a better day; well, mutual friend, my Facebook timeline begs to differ.

4.
  hikikomori
n. 1. The last nigger on earth.
2. Humanity’s sigh.
3. The act of shutting yourself indoors for years and years or decades or a lifetime and that’s, like, really it.

5.
  Just the other day I saw Frank had changed his profile picture. Now he was happy with friends he’d never seen on a white beach he’d never stuck his toes into, wind in his hair, feeling ah.
  The photo-shop artist had crafted his bags of decades-strong dirt from his eyes and left Frank somewhere between Hollywood and the crèche.

6.
  In a few hours of post-climatic nothingness, true blackness floods his vision and Frank wakes. He pulls the Occulus Rift from his head and tosses it on to the matress beside him. Some half of his hell is slumbering, some half of his hell is fear.
The colours of the world are as muted as an old movie. They are a curious remnant that will never move Frank. Even the aches of his own frame are fractured and improper. The will to move only rouses with the dread.

7.
  The Occulus Rift is timed to shut down one hour in advance of Frank’s work. If he did not do this, he might get fired and he might even die. Body wasted and heart outworn.

8.
 Eventually rises, washes himself off into the sinkhole. Plugs in the earphones of his iPod like simese black snakes into his brain and leaves for work.

9.
  (in two years he will jizzum to death, happy and alone. A voltaic shock 9 times too large.)

10
  Alan Ford and 22 others like your profile picture.

11.
  Nothing is more perfect to Frank than working nights. The streets are deserted, the office is empty. Apart from the night manager and a couple of other clerks he is totally alone. If he’s not a team player; well, he’s never late, never talks back and he does what he’s told.

  The night manager is a bored man anyway who has Frank figured inside out: exactly the type of guy who you never have to worry about supervising or worry about promoting. Through the screen dividing his private office from the mass of cubicles outside he watches Frank and he thinks

  “what a fucking joke.”

  12.
  The last book that Frank read was The Great Gatsby for high school GCSE English. He got a C- on the report.

  13.
  Upon his return, he gets strangely hungry and eats something that should never have been prepackaged. He showers, half-sleeps with the rubber pads still buried in his brain singing “la-la-la, beep-beep-beep.” Wakes up and has Sheila eat him. Like this until the weekend when the fun really begins.

14.
  Fetishism is a battle. Like any addiction, one needs more and more and one can get crippled and killed by it. What might save one is God or recognising one’s power to outplay addiction with death and other pleasures.

Frank hasn’t heard of any of this. When he wrote to Occulus Rift asking if they had any plans to upgrade the shock-immersive body straps from 500mV to something more like 100V, he became a fly in the statistics of an almost flawless customer service with a commendable response time. So he makes do with his own kink ordered online: a leather shock-corset that even wetted and coiled with copper wiring  just doesn’t go far enough. Only the weekends give him time for the full gimp suit that allows for something almost like peace in his heart. Frank’s Father thought he would never have a sex life but he dies almost fifteen times a week.

15.
  Like a day of rest Sunday brings the hunt for necessities, airing out an excessive degree of laundry and flooding the world with more music. Hunts out the filth of his universe with chemical weapons, vaccuum and fresh air.

16.
  If he didn’t do this, he’d worry about the neighbours.

17.
  Frank has no girlfriend.

  18.
  Other than the week/weekend, time has lost all concept to Frank.

19.
  One day she is standing outside the door and Frank’s world is over.

20.
  When Frank was fifteen and the wave of hikikomorism was first sweeping the West, Frank learnt what it means to be forgotten. A door locks on a world and the few friends that one did have crumble like sandcastles in the tide. Parents too busy or ashamed to deal with ghost children. And Frank’s soul was wrapped in cotton wool and left to suffocate.

21.
  It’s his sister there now though and it may as well be a gun for all it means to Frank. Beneath his smile, in a part of him he can’t connect with he starts to panic. As he’s led upstairs he doesn’t know when he is, but it feels like a Wednesday. If he had studied her eyes he might have seen concern somewhere in there. But life has left Frank utterly incapable of proper eye contact.
She pauses at the door so that he can unlock the apartment at the very top landing. He sucks in his breath just a little like a wounded hound. Even after having the courage to open the door he swings round beneath the frame and looks her dead in the face.
“Sister it’s been so long” he says. And they hug because she takes this for a measure of feeling.
  But he follows it up and says, “I’m really not used to having people in my home.”

22.
  Another sister might be confused or offended but Lyra knows Frank. The last thing she ever followed him into was hikikomorism, because the self is a place you cannot follow, even if it is your brother.

23.
  The difference between the two of them is that she got out. And she knows this now looking at Frank. So she hugs him again and tries to hold back the tears.
She forces her way in the house anyway.
  They sit across the table from each other and while she makes them coffee she tells Frank that she visited Dad’s grave last Wednesday, that their Mother is still in the home. She tells him that her last boyfriend was a real jerk and the four months it lasted were the hardest because she had to convince herself it wasn’t her fault. And she tells him that it’s good to finally see him and she would have came earlier but living in Southside’s been kind of busy with the new job at the lab and anyway, what has Frank been doing?

24.
  When they were young before any of the “boarded coma, nonsense” as their Father called it, Frank gave Lyra a shove on her swing and she fell back into the same place again and again and again.

25.
  The only way that Frank could get her to leave was to agree to meet her on Saturday night at the opera house while she’s still here for her conference, or whatever. She knows they will never be close again so she accepts this.
When she’s left he breaks into a sweat and for the first time in many months he feels the need to get the brandy bottle hidden behind value packs of teabags and emergency tins of soup in the heights of the kitchen cupboards and he pours himself a thick drink.
  Against health regulations he is back in the Occulus world within the hour and his worries are buried underground in big empty vaults.

26.
   On Saturday at 8pm a phone rings out.
