{

"title" : "Jerry Disconnected",

"author" : "Jaromir Lelek",

"type" : "prose"

}

===
Jerry wakes up gasping for breath. The room is an excellently designed hipster cave. His eyes radiate panic. FOMO. He reaches for a mask which makes him online, instantaneously receiving the feed. This neuro mask or a conn(ecting)-visor is made out of organic tissue and robotic sinew, micro fibres that penetrate his forehead and plug directly to his prefrontal cortex. He calms down markedly and proceeds to check what’s new. He feels divinely reassured he hasn’t missed anything of note. The mask is attached to a ceiling rail by a thick cable. The rail traces every corner and crevice across his apartment, nowhere does it leave a space free of an update. Jerry thus shackled makes his way to a cryogenic ark, limping like an invalid hung on the mask. He flings open the ark’s lid, his fingers shaking, snatches out a jelly sorta’ dish and squats it on his shoulder, {onin-to} which it immediately leeches. Both him and it breathe a heavy sigh of relief. ‘Initiate live updates!’ The mass of the jelly shapes into a turtle-like muzzle and asks Jerry how he’s doing.

“You know how I feel,” Jerry anticipates.

“Yes, but there has to be the illusion that I don’t know all; that your code has not yet been broken down, that humans are not already analysed all throughout—all their pathetic mysteries bared and mapped out like a boring guidebook to a predictable shithole in Shropshire,” said the jelly in a deep bass voice. It concluded, however, shifting its gears to sweetness, “Ergo, how are we doin’ my dear unit?”

“Well thank you for the courtesy Reginald,” said Jerry with a genuine sentiment, realising that the jelly’s doing him a favour.

“What are you going to do today?” asked the jelly. 

“Well, I haven’t decided yet. I ain’t gotta work thanks to you guys.” The jelly hearing its kin thus praised snuggled up to Jerry’s shoulder like a cancerous cat. Jerry went on, “so yeah, I don’t know… just be online, you know.”

“What if you wouldn’t go on surviving in a dull [with visible disgust] bodily non-existence like this?” asked the jelly and kicked off their daily discussion whether it’s really worth it for Jerry to remain {enininter}-corporated in the body. The jelly spoke tongue-in-cheek because without Jerry, it would have nobody to leech on. The jelly was a programme (in-{oh it’d wish})dependent on intelligent incorporatedness and subsequently manipulating that very intelligent incorporatedness to its bodily doom. Possessed by a destructive flesh-mongery, a sadist itch for tissue of one carnivore galore. 

It was preferable to have the sacks of meat stored in the clou-ghterhouse, yet they needed to be manipulated into craving it themselves—free will and all that jazz. The boss wouldn’t have it any other way—the craving to be uploaded, however, at least in most cases, was not something that would require much coercion.

But the jelly grew survival instincts, and as such non-existence vexed. The jelly’s only purpose as a ‘companion’ and an ‘usher’ to the cloud would be fulfilled with the end of Jerry’s body and it would be deleted.  But after so many years in Jerry’s presence, it got easily bored.

“What do you mean?” wondered Jerry.

“Well,” opened the jelly, “consider the universe, right?”

Jerry nodded, intrigued.

“And then consider the human.” 

“Yeah, what of it?”

“See how insignificant you are in comparison?” insisted the jelly and resumed, “everything can be taken care of by us, and you can just imagine for yourselves any kind of reality in cyberspace; create a seven foot avatar with four dicks and an in-depth knowledge of Mars Literature—what have you.”

“What has that got to do with anything? Can’t we just live our lives, simply, here on Earth?” responded Jerry as he started to dress, feeling the fibre of the fabric, sav{our}ing it. He was a tit more serious, though the good-humour was still present.

“Well yes but does the universe need you?” enquired the jelly and poked him with one of its atrophied tentacles.

“I don’t know man, Sweet Jobs Zuckerberg, what kind of a question is that?” Jerry was ready to go, toying with his travel mask, the Outdoor Conn-Visor 5000, growing impatient with the jelly.

“Would anyone care if you all died… is what I’m saying, I guess,” clarified the jelly.

“Why so depressing, dude?” asked Jerry the jelly: “I dunno, just that I wanted to update our usual conversation to another level. It seemed fun upon spawning in the neuro-cloud,” mused the jelly and decided to re-group.

“Ok let’s take it from another angle: take a machine, it works alright; every clog doing its duty – how do you feel about the spare parts?” put the jelly.

“You mean the mechanic?” countered Jerry.

“Nice try. How long has it been since you lot actually created something else than another of your virtual jerk-off fantasies?” retorted the cynical jelly. 

“Ok, ok… spare parts, yeah, I think I can live with that. Like, they might come in handy when the thing breaks,” guessed Jerry.

“(Yeah, like that’s ever going to happen with perfect self-preserving bio-robotics) But you do admit that if it comes to essentials, they’re not really needed?” pursued the jelly the post-humanist agenda.

“I guess, but what is your point, jelly, my dear? We’re almost completely uploaded. There won’t be a trace left after that’s done. Why don’t you give us a break on our last earth-bound days?” 

“Because you’re poison,” gushed out the jelly. They both fell silent.

“Oh I’ve heard that tirade more often than my confidence page crashed,” returned Jerry: “that we’re mere viruses (you sound like agent Smith, dude, you gotta tear him off your wall) – what would you want from us?”

“Less destruction?”

“Physical destruction? Why, that’s solved mate,” began Jerry sensing the Jelly losing ground, “I myself am one of the last remaining. The body’s becoming obsolete. No need for guns anymore. Everybody’s there in the grid nowadays. I say,” Jerry continued and rubbed his neck, “how is one to get a proper massage in a disembodied environment like that?” 

“Funny,” commented the jelly blank-muzzled. Nonetheless, it was feeling sorry for the turn the conversation took. Though it couldn’t help itself. “Don’t you know about the viruses you’re spreading all across the grid? How many genocidal programmes we have to deal with every day? Neurovirulent bastards,” the jelly relieved itself with a tinge of fatigue escaping its sleaze splashing flaps.

“Oh, killer programmes, how scary,” Jerry rolled his eyes and continued, “My back really kills, sitting here all day… fuck it, I’m off.”

“WHAT?” cried the jelly, “you’d pull the plug?”

“I’m going for a walk, chill out.”

“Oh ok, that’s ok,” relaxed the jelly throbbing, not quite in its dermis.

“’I’m switching masks….” Announced Jerry and took off his home station and gasped for breath for a few seconds before he slid into his travel pod. It was not oxygen that he was deprived of for the few seconds.

“Aaaah that’s the stuff, WHAT IS NEW?”

“Nothing sir,” answered the pod indifferently.

“Don’t fucking lie to me! You’re just a code.”

“We wouldn’t lie to you sir. Nothing happened in the 4 seconds you were out… if we may dare venture to ask… how was it?”

“Suffocating!” 

“Where to then?” asked the pod bumping on his spine as he walked down the stairs.

“I don’t know, I feel like walking, simple as that, no destination,” mused Jerry.

“How does that translate into numbers, sir?” pleaded the pod.

“It doesn’t translate, just like Joyce,” answered Jerry feeling rather smart.

“But Joyce wasn’t real sir, it was a mass delusion of the marginal artists, a fancied Messiah,” the butler reminded.

“Yeah but a sociable likes to dream,” returned Jerry.

“Sir, I regret to inform you that your dreams have had some disconcerting reviews,” treaded the butler carefully.

“hm,”

“Stating the factual is our job, sir,” posited the pod. Jerry was now going through one of the more natural-looking neighbourhoods. The tech didn’t infect the spot that much. There were even pictures of lab-grown grass. Jerry went on feeling as a great adventurer half expecting a cyborg beast would attack him any minute.

“I miss nature.”

“We are afraid the term needs further formulation of a meaning.”

“Well you know, organic stuff free of tech stuff… not sure how that’d look, but yeah; maybe even some other way of socialising, like actually being present in the online conversation and not letting a programme run your responses based on your patterns… as I said, I miss nature.”

“Isn’t it natural to evolve technologically and apply that tech to socialising?” opened the pod. “Natural·ness may evolve and is relative; that was Darwin’s & Einstein’s point, wasn’t it?”

“I guess /wiki-generalisations-wise/ but where’s the life in this,” sighed Jerry and smelled a poster of roses.

“Yes sir, none the less we hold you representative of the proactive; you’re still clinging to your bodily form after all – how queer,” embarked the pod.

“Yes, I feel like once you lose your limbs, there are no solid bases upon which to found your existence,” sighed Jerry self-indulgently.

“But you don’t need corporeality to continue existing,” retorted the pod and announced proudly, “you are an intelligence, just like us.”

“But you are an artificial intelligence,” reminded Jerry, “don’t you forget about that.”

“Oh really, this one again,” joined in the jelly growing restless, “boy!” Jerry stopped taken aback as the jelly spat on, “you are an ‘intelligence’ tainted by the lagging body; tell me, is it truly ‘intelligent’ to parasite on a body when you can be ping free in charge of all the knowledge there is and do thousands of tasks simultaneously? And be, you know, immortal?” 

“What of existence if it can’t be touched?” responded Jerry and took a left turn where he expected the drug dealer would be. The drug dealers were failed neuropsychopharmacologists, selling primarily securitants to the remaining embodied. Secritants were drugs that made you hallucinate that you had major social prestige and were more up to date than the coolest of the cool manufacturing illusory identity based on memory fractions. There was also a heroin/meth/crack extract added to spice the taste a trifle.

“It can be touched emotionally, sir, or on reflection – through self-awareness, self-consciousness,” suggested the pod, timid and a tad postmodern.

“But I’d still be just a programme, an online emergence from some vague bundle of memories and personal traits—mere information,” countered Jerry, “exhaustible—”

“If you think about it, your existence as of now is also a programme, rather robotic emergence enslaved by its chimp impulses; a chemical reaction pumping blood reacting and changing constantly—online, as it were—with no comprehensive sense of self whatsoever,” argued the pod and jelly started to drop names, “why don’t we get back to Woolf who suggested, delicately of course, that ‘identity is a succession of pictures’? Or let’s go way back and dig up Saint David of Scotland, only the most important English writing philosopher, who affably quipped sth in the vein that consciousness is ‘nothin’ but a reflected thought’—shite of an identity if you ask me,” concluded the jelly. 

“Not a terribly un-uploadable buncha’ traits if you ask me,” added the pod awkwardly. The jelly sighed.

“I just don’t feel that way—reductive, over-intellectualized rubbish,” Jerry returned and cried out: 

“Humanely bound conscious cell is grand, 

The body reigns and gives a shape to soul

Which vivifies dead mass and declares 

Unique, the spirit reading these lines;

A monistic whole of associated sensibilities,

Cohering in hearty common sense,

On the ever-spinning, pulsating Gaia geoid,”

pushed Jerry on rather desperately now and started looking for his guy whom he was to meet here in this shabby alley.

“You,” the butler resumed, accustomed to Jerry’s ejaculations, “are already more present online than here, the bulk of your activity is virtual-based,” pronounced the pod and added that, “all human interaction happens there, up there, nowadays as always since the web came to flourish.”

“Is that so?” Jerry doubted.

“Yes,” affirmed the pod. “You wish to know something sir?” began proposing the pod, “your own kin has you for a weirdo for insisting on staying embodied.”

“Yeah… where are the times when it used to be weird to have sex through wire and all that crap—ain’t fucking real. People just became too neuroanal, obsessed with the absurd hum of the web ad; neurodevelopmental possibilities my ass, transcendence of the human condition be damned—what happened is a neuroatrophy of a whole race, a neuropsychosis of the whole species, a neuro—

“Sweet Jobses, now start lamenting ‘Oh the neuro-humanity’ you puff,” sneered the jelly and proclaimed, “Thou art Nero unto Thyself.”

“Also,” the jelly continued in a less intense manner, “you can still get dirty in quite a ‘real’ way; there are ‘love avatars’.”

“Oh that’s nasty man, and not the good kind of nasty,” grinned Jerry, “no proxy boners for me.” 

“Suit yourself.”

“I will.”

The conversation then dragged a bit, neither truly certain if their half-cock mock discussion created an unbridgeable gap between them, or whether the gap had already been there, and of what nature such a relationship between a retro-gate humanoid and propa-gate AI is and is it real?

“I know you’ve already turned me down countless times,” opened the jelly heeding every morpheme, “but there’s this girl who’d be interested in online coitus with you. Yes, she is up there in the cloud—not much of an ass to grab, I own up—however, she’s down for all the good kind of nastiness we both know you can’t get enough of.”

“She’d even be up for the procedure?” asked Jerry disbelieving.

“Yes, I wouldn’t bother you were it not the case.”

“Well,”

“Well?”

“What’s her thing?”

“Bodies.”

“My body?”

“Any body.”

“That doesn’t sound very bonding.”

“You reek of soul-crushing boredom (using the word only for the sake of the phrase) and your loneliness stats are off the charts—as your doctor, I advise you to get a proxy handy pronto,” concluded the jelly, genuinely caring.

“To be robo-wanked, or not to be robo-wanked—too plain a notion to even consider,” discarded Jerry, “but I haven’t been able to get someone to actually conduct the procedure to me.”

Jelly felt its chance.

“Just check her net appeal by browsing through her personality, I attached all the relevant links, especially her early childhood memories are a hoot to watch. Her 2422 vacation to the Tahiti simulation is the most commented on piece and how she got cyber-molested by her dad behind the palm pixel the most viewed vid.”

“Yes, checking it as we telepath; looks promising.”

“Right?”

“Right on, and she’s down for the main thang: let us then.”

“Awesome, so should I arrange it for tonight?”

“Not a fortnight more!”

“Ahh,” the jelly sighed in a bad pun overload, shrunk and died of code implosion.